Global	Socio-economic variables	1	"Age, in years"	25-35	6Global	Socio-economic variables	1	"Age, in years"	35-45	8Global	Socio-economic variables	1	"Age, in years"	45-65	10Global	Socio-economic variables	1	"Age, in years"	Over 65	4Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	What level of education did the borrower attain?	No formal education	1Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	What level of education did the borrower attain?	Primary education	4Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	What level of education did the borrower attain?	Secondary education	7Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	What level of education did the borrower attain?	Tertiary education	10Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How much loan-use experience does the borrower have?	over 5 years	10Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How much loan-use experience does the borrower have?	1-5 years	7Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How much loan-use experience does the borrower have?	less than a year	4Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How much loan-use experience does the borrower have?	no history of loan-usage	1Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How many dependents does the borrower have (not including the farmer him/herself)? 	2 people	10Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How many dependents does the borrower have (not including the farmer him/herself)? 	2-3 people	7Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How many dependents does the borrower have (not including the farmer him/herself)? 	4-6 people	4Global	Socio-economic variables	1	How many dependents does the borrower have (not including the farmer him/herself)? 	more than 6 people	1Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	Marital Status	Married	10Global	Socio-economic variables	0.5	Marital Status	Single or divorced	1Global	Socio-economic variables	1.5	How much previous farming experience does the farmer have? 	> 5 years	10Global	Socio-economic variables	1.5	How much previous farming experience does the farmer have? 	3-5 years	8Global	Socio-economic variables	1.5	How much previous farming experience does the farmer have? 	1-3 years	5Global	Socio-economic variables	1.5	How much previous farming experience does the farmer have? 	<1 year	3Global	Socio-economic variables	1.5	How much previous farming experience does the farmer have? 	No previous experience	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s Net Farm Income (assume farmer has previous farming experience) 	80th percentile of per capita GDP	10Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s Net Farm Income (assume farmer has previous farming experience) 	60 – 80th percentile of per capital GDP	8Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s Net Farm Income (assume farmer has previous farming experience) 	40 – 60th percentile of per capital GDP	6Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s Net Farm Income (assume farmer has previous farming experience) 	20 – 40th percentile of per capital GDP	3Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s Net Farm Income (assume farmer has previous farming experience) 	< 20th  percentile of per capital GDP	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ fertilizer?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ fertilizer?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced harvesting equipment?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced harvesting equipment?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ pest control?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ pest control?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ improved crop varieties?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ improved crop varieties?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ crop rotation?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ crop rotation?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced crop planting techniques?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced crop planting techniques?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced crop management equipment e.g. irrigation system?	Yes	2Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ advanced crop management equipment e.g. irrigation system?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ knowledge of suitable crops?	Yes	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	Does the borrower employ knowledge of suitable crops?	No	0Global	Production-function Variables	0.5	What is the ownership status of farm land?	Privately/indirectly owned by farmer	10Global	Production-function Variables	0.5	What is the ownership status of farm land?	Farm land is leased by farmer	1Global	Production-function Variables	1	What is the approximate size of farm relative to local average?	80th percentile of local average farm size	10Global	Production-function Variables	1	What is the approximate size of farm relative to local average?	50th percentile of local average farm size	6Global	Production-function Variables	1	What is the approximate size of farm relative to local average?	20th percentile of local average farm size	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the cost of material (Direct) of the farm? 	>40% of farm income margin	1Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the cost of material (Direct) of the farm? 	30-40% of farm income margin	3Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the cost of material (Direct) of the farm? 	20-30% of farm income margin	5Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the cost of material (Direct) of the farm? 	10-20% of farm income margin	8Global	Production-function Variables	1.5	What is the cost of material (Direct) of the farm? 	 <10% of farm income margin	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Are there local/national subsidies for farming products/equipment the farmer uses?  	"Yes, general subsidies for the agricultural sector"	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Are there local/national subsidies for farming products/equipment the farmer uses?  	"Yes, for a number of specific farming equipment"	6East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Are there local/national subsidies for farming products/equipment the farmer uses?  	No or insignificant subsidies	1East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farmer specifically or indirectly engaged in oil palm or rubber farming?	Yes	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farmer specifically or indirectly engaged in oil palm or rubber farming?	No	1East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm land under sustainable and legal tenure arrangements? 	Farm is privately owned by the farmer with comprehensive legal protection of rights  10 	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm land under sustainable and legal tenure arrangements? 	Farm is privately owned without well-defined legal protection of rights	7East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm land under sustainable and legal tenure arrangements? 	Farm is leased with comprehensive legal protection of rights:	4East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm land under sustainable and legal tenure arrangements? 	Farm is leased without comprehensive legal protection of rights:	1East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1	How well trained are the farm employees in growing the crops in the farm?	"Good knowledge and training in growing that crop, resulting in high labor productivity"	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1	How well trained are the farm employees in growing the crops in the farm?	"Limited knowledge and training in growing the crop, but still manages to achieve a decent level of labor productivity due to experience"	6East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1	How well trained are the farm employees in growing the crops in the farm?	"Limited knowledge and training in growing crop, and achieve low labor productivity"	1East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm location well shielded/protected from effects of natural disasters?	Farm local region does not observe effects of natural disasters	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm location well shielded/protected from effects of natural disasters?	"Farm local region experiences occasional natural disasters, but farm is well-shielded from the effects"	7East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm location well shielded/protected from effects of natural disasters?	"Farm local region susceptible to natural disasters, but farm is well-shielded from effects"	4East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Is the farm location well shielded/protected from effects of natural disasters?	"Farm local region susceptible to natural disasters, and farm is poorly equipped to handle them"	1East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	>150% of net farming income	10East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	50-150% of net farming income 	8East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	0-50% of net farming income	7East Asia and Pacific	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	no source of off-farm income 	5Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the borrower engaging in farming practices that promote environmental and growth sustainability?	"Yes, to a large extent"	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the borrower engaging in farming practices that promote environmental and growth sustainability?	"Yes, to a certain extent"	6Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the borrower engaging in farming practices that promote environmental and growth sustainability?	To a limited extent	1Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower have access to low-cost effective labor? 	"Proximity, populace mentality and policy environment favors recruitment"	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower have access to low-cost effective labor? 	"Populace mentality and policy environment favors recruitment, but far from labor pool"	8Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower have access to low-cost effective labor? 	Proximity and policy environment favors recruitment	6Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower have access to low-cost effective labor? 	Proximity favors recruitment	4Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower have access to low-cost effective labor? 	Low access to labor	2Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the farm value-adding to the community and society?	"Contributes to society by offering employment opportunities, and also value-added transformation to food and beverage products"	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the farm value-adding to the community and society?	Farm produce has limited product potential	6Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Is the farm value-adding to the community and society?	Little or no value-add to community and product chain	1Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	How involved is the farm with agro-processing in its vertical supply chain? 	Good integration of agro-processing within the farm’s operation chain	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	How involved is the farm with agro-processing in its vertical supply chain? 	Good /Full integration with external agro-processing industries	8Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	How involved is the farm with agro-processing in its vertical supply chain? 	Partial integration with external agro-processing industries in certain crop type 	6Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	How involved is the farm with agro-processing in its vertical supply chain? 	Weak integration with agro-processing; Usage limited to basic crop processing	4Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1	How involved is the farm with agro-processing in its vertical supply chain? 	Little or no involvement with agro-processing	2Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How much government/commercial injections (e.g. Embrapa) in the local region?	Holistic agriculture-related commercial development in the region	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How much government/commercial injections (e.g. Embrapa) in the local region?	Significant commercial development of other forms in the region	8Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How much government/commercial injections (e.g. Embrapa) in the local region?	Infrastructure improvement in the region	6Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How much government/commercial injections (e.g. Embrapa) in the local region?	Presence of few small companies investing into the region	4Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How much government/commercial injections (e.g. Embrapa) in the local region?	Little or no investment into the region	2Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	>150% of net farming income	10Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	50-150% of net farming income 	8Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	0-50% of net farming income	7Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	no source of off-farm income	5Latin America and Carribean	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	negative (extra expense or investment)	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	"How much social capital does the borrower have in his community (network, mutual contexts, avenue to direct concerns)?"	"Farmer is well-connected with relevant authorities and associations, and can receive and give external help and advice easily"	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	"How much social capital does the borrower have in his community (network, mutual contexts, avenue to direct concerns)?"	"Farmer is partially involved in relevant farming associations and contact networks. Generally passive, but can actively seek advice and help if required"	6Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	"How much social capital does the borrower have in his community (network, mutual contexts, avenue to direct concerns)?"	"Farmer is not well-connected to local farming communities and associations, and do not have a network of contacts"	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What are the crops on the farm grown for?	Primarily commercial crops for processing down the production chain	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What are the crops on the farm grown for?	Partially commercial crops and subsistence crops	7Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What are the crops on the farm grown for?	"Mostly subsistence crops, with a small portion allocated for commercial farming"	4Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What are the crops on the farm grown for?	Solely subsistence-based farming	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farm engaged in agro-tourism? 	Currently actively engaged in agro-tourism with healthy contribution to farm income 	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farm engaged in agro-tourism? 	Currently engaged in agro-tourism with marginal contribution to farm income	7Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farm engaged in agro-tourism? 	"Currently not engaged in agro-tourism, but with plans to"	4Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the farm engaged in agro-tourism? 	"Currently not engaged in, and have no plans for agro-tourism"	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower incorporate the use of Information Societies in his/her farming practices?	"Actively employ Information Societies to perform e-business, access modern public services, food safety information, and ad hoc education"	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower incorporate the use of Information Societies in his/her farming practices?	"Employs Information Societies in limited extent, such as accessing relevant farm-related information"	6Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower incorporate the use of Information Societies in his/her farming practices?	General lack of use of Information Societies	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the level of commercial support for local agriculture product?	"Good support for marketing and commercialization of local products, as well as proximity to well-structured production chains"	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the level of commercial support for local agriculture product?	"Good support for marketing and commercialization of local products, but far from well-structured production chains"	7Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the level of commercial support for local agriculture product?	"Partial support for marketing and commercialization of local products, with partly-developed production chain"	4Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the level of commercial support for local agriculture product?	"Little or not support for marketing and commercialization of local products, production chain not well developed"	1Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	>150% of net farming income 	10Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	50-150% of net farming income	8Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	0-50% of net farming income	7Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	no source of off-farm income	5Eastern Europe and Central Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	negative (extra expense or investment)	1Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What type of land is the borrower’s farm located on?	Irrigated land	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What type of land is the borrower’s farm located on?	Rain-fed cropland	6Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	What type of land is the borrower’s farm located on?	Rangeland	1Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to water harvesting system/techniques	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to close proximity to water source	7Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Moderate proximity to water resource	4Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	"Far away from water source, thus low access to water resource"	1Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What kind of agriculture insurance does the borrower have? (Prerequisite for farming loans application)	Only equipment and machine insurance	1Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What kind of agriculture insurance does the borrower have? (Prerequisite for farming loans application)	"Equipment and machine insurance, and animal and livestock insurance"	6Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What kind of agriculture insurance does the borrower have? (Prerequisite for farming loans application)	"Equipment and machine insurance, animal and livestock insurance, and crop insurance (against natural disasters)"	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	 >150% of net farming income	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	50-150% of net farming income 8	8Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	0-50% of net farming income	6Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	No source of off-farm income	4Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)? 	Negative (extra expense or investment)	1Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What’s the value of collateral/mortgage committed by the borrower for the loan applied?	100% of term-loan limit	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What’s the value of collateral/mortgage committed by the borrower for the loan applied?	50-100% of term-loan limit 8	8Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What’s the value of collateral/mortgage committed by the borrower for the loan applied?	30-50% of term-loan limit 6	6Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What’s the value of collateral/mortgage committed by the borrower for the loan applied?	0-30% of term-loan limit 4	4Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What’s the value of collateral/mortgage committed by the borrower for the loan applied?	None 2	2Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the borrower actively involved in the community or farming associations?	"Yes, with involvement in a well-developed association responsible for storage, marketing and necessary training and research"	10Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the borrower actively involved in the community or farming associations?	"Yes, with involvement in a well-developed association responsible for storage and marketing only"	7Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the borrower actively involved in the community or farming associations?	"Yes, but with limited involvement in a well-developed association"	4Middle East and North Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is the borrower actively involved in the community or farming associations?	Little or no involvement in the community or relevant associations	1South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How many labor personnel are working in the borrower’s farm?	more than 10	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How many labor personnel are working in the borrower’s farm?	5-10 people	8South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How many labor personnel are working in the borrower’s farm?	3-5 people	5South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How many labor personnel are working in the borrower’s farm?	1-3 people	3South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	How many labor personnel are working in the borrower’s farm?	Fewer than 3 people	1South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to water harvesting system/techniques	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to close proximity to water source	7South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Moderate proximity to water resource	4South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	"Far away from water source, thus low access to water resource"	1South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is/will be the focus of the farming activities of the borrower’s farm?	Working on basic subsistence-based production such as food crops and vegetables	2South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is/will be the focus of the farming activities of the borrower’s farm?	"Working on plantation crops such as oil palm, sugarcane, rubber and tea"	4South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is/will be the focus of the farming activities of the borrower’s farm?	Diversification into higher value agricultural commodities (and other rural activities)	6South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is/will be the focus of the farming activities of the borrower’s farm?	Production towards more market-oriented farming and integration into commodity chains and clusters	8South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is/will be the focus of the farming activities of the borrower’s farm?	Farm produce mainly targeted at export markets	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower gain support from agriculture research?	"Yes, breed of crops is from “The Gene Revolution”"	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower gain support from agriculture research?	"Yes, related to and being advised by international agriculture research institutions"	7South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower gain support from agriculture research?	"Yes, some support regional agriculture research"	4South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	Does the borrower gain support from agriculture research?	No such support accessible	1South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)?	>150% of net farming income	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)?	50-150% of net farming income	8South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)?	0-50% of net farming income	6South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)?	No source of off-farm income	4South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	1	What is the borrower’s net external income (including remittances/commercial activities)?	Negative (extra expense or investment)	1South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the number of livestock owned by the farm?	More than 100	10South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the number of livestock owned by the farm?	50-100	8South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the number of livestock owned by the farm?	20-50	6South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the number of livestock owned by the farm?	5-20	4South Asia	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	What is the number of livestock owned by the farm?	0-5	2Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to water harvesting system/techniques	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Easy access to water for irrigation due to close proximity to water source	7Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	Moderate proximity to water resource	4Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1.5	Does the farm have good access to water resources?	"Far away from water source, thus low access to water resource"	1Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	A dummy depicting whether or not respondent used the borrowed fund to support growing of improved crop:	Borrowed fund was used to support an improved crop variety	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	A dummy depicting whether or not respondent used the borrowed fund to support growing of improved crop:	Borrowed fund was used to support a local or quasi-improved crop variety	6Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	A dummy depicting whether or not respondent used the borrowed fund to support growing of improved crop:	No clear idea about the suitable crop for the farm	1Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Number of tractors per hectare of farming land:	More than 1.5 per hectare	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Number of tractors per hectare of farming land:	0.5-1.5 per hectare	6Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Number of tractors per hectare of farming land:	Less than 0.5 per hectare	3Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is any value-addition or further processing involved in the production process?	Traditional processing (just to reduce postharvest losses and create more convenient products) of food crops	1Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is any value-addition or further processing involved in the production process?	Traditional processing (just to reduce postharvest losses and create more convenient products) of non-food crops	4Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is any value-addition or further processing involved in the production process?	"Improved/Industrial processing (Using biochemistry, physiology, physics and engineering knowledge) of food crops"	7Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	Is any value-addition or further processing involved in the production process?	"Improved/Industrial processing (Using biochemistry, physiology, physics and engineering knowledge) of non-food crops"	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What has the borrower done to deal with infectious diseases associated with domestic livestock?	Little or no knowledge an awareness	1Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What has the borrower done to deal with infectious diseases associated with domestic livestock?	Separate wildlife and domestic livestock to avoid possible infection	6Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	1	What has the borrower done to deal with infectious diseases associated with domestic livestock?	"Separate wildlife and domestic livestock, and know about main diseases such as rinderpest, canine distemper, bovine, tuberculosis, African horse sickness and African swine fever"	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower belonging to an ethnic group/community in farming work?	"Yes, he/she serves as a leader of an ethnic group"	10Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower belonging to an ethnic group/community in farming work?	"Yes, he/she is a member of an ethnic group"	6Sub-Saharan Africa	Geo-specific Variables	0.5	Does the borrower belonging to an ethnic group/community in farming work?	"No, he/she has no involvement in those groups"	1