1	Universal	General	Business	Look for water sources around your property2	Universal	General	Business	"Be aware of Murphy's law: Anything bad that can happen, will"3	Universal	General	Business	"Don't take things for granted, always be aware of your surroundings and what you are doing"4	Universal	General	Business	"Know your market: know when to buy and to sell, and who to buy and sell to"5	Universal	General	Business	"If you are far from the market, have a vehicle to haul your equipment, supplies and products"6	Universal	General	Business	"Protect from theft, choose the location of your farm carefully"7	Universal	General	Business	Have a safe place to keep your inventory8	Universal	General	Business	"As well as keeping track of your activity, try to build a plan on what you'll be doing in the future, it will help you to get a loan, and bad surprises will be less painful if you have thought about how to fix them before"10	Universal	General	Business	"Before deciding to have a farm, think about why you want to do it: it is hard and costly"11	Universal	General	Business	Organizing yourself in farming communities will lead to benefits to all of the farmers involved12	Universal	General	Business	Priority of children is to attend school and they may only help in the field in activities which do not attempt against their security and times to study13	Universal	Crop	Management	Never pick up a seedling by the stem—it is the plant's lifeline. Always handle seedlings by their leaves. Leaves will grow back14	Universal	Crop	Management	"The ideal time to plant is when it’s overcast, with rain in the forecast and no frosts or heat waves expected"15	Universal	Crop	Management	"Plant seeds too deeply, and they may never germinate"16	Universal	Crop	Management	"Focus on the root zone. Remember that it's the roots that need access to water, not the leaves. Wetting the foliage is a waste of water and can promote the spread of disease"17	Universal	Crop	Management	"Water in the morning. If you do get moisture on the leaves, this gives them time to dry out. It's much more difficult for plant diseases to get a foothold when the foliage is dry"18	Universal	Crop	Management	"Crop rotation consists of implementing a planting cycle of different types of crops, generally in the following scheme: cultivated row crops (e.g., corn, potatoes), close-growing grains (e.g., oats, wheat), and sod-forming, or rest, crops (e.g., clover, clover-timothy). Crop rotation is an excellent way to increase the productivity of your farm, by maintaining the health of your soil and helping in the prevention of disease transmission"19	Universal	Crop	Management	When transplanting select healthy seedlings and discard the feeble ones or with signs of disease20	Universal	Crop	Management	"The use of irrigation may increase the amount of production, however do not irrigate in excess"21	Universal	Crop	Management	"Mixed cropping may mean growing alternate rows of each crop (intercropping), mixing crops within a row, or broadcasting (mixing the crops purely at random). Mixed cropping has the advantage of lowering the risk to the farmer in case one of the crops fails"22	Universal	Crop	Management	"There are two recommended sowing practices: - Sowing in plant holes: The farmer makes a hole in the ground with a hoe, puts a few seeds in the hole, and closes it; - Sowing in rows: The farmer sows in plant holes which are regularly spaced along a straight line. This activity can also be done with a seeder (an implement drawn by an animal or a tractor)"23	Universal	Crop	Management	"If too many seeds are sown on a field, the plants will have to compete with one another for space, water, and soil nutrients, and the crop production will be low. On the other hand, if too few seeds are sown, the few resulting plants will leave more space for weeds to grow and this will also reduce production"24	Universal	Crop	Management	"If too many plants are growing in a field, some of them should be pulled out of the ground so that the remaining plants do not have to compete with one another"25	Universal	Crop	Management	Plants should not have to compete with weeds for the nutrients and water in the soil. Weeds should be pulled out or cut off as soon as they emerge. A crop seldom recovers fully if weeding is delayed26	Universal	Crop	Management	"Fruits and vegetables harvested must be placed under shadow,  away from animals and from the storage of chemicals and fertilizers"27	Universal	Crop	Fertilizers	Fertilizers can hurt plants if they are used wrong. The right amount and the right kind of fertilizer make your soil good and healthy without wasting fertilizer or money. Use only what you need29	Universal	Crop	Fertilizers	If chemical fertilizers are used they will supply nutrients but will not improve the soil structure (which can still be improved by ploughing the weeds into the soil)30	Universal	Crop	Fertilizers	"The method of applying fertilizer influences its effectiveness. Fertilizer can be broadcast on the soil and then ploughed into it, so that the nutrients are available to the seeds as they start growing or it can be applied around the plant or between rows during weeding"31	Universal	Crop	Fertilizers	"The timing of fertilizer application (be it natural or chemical) is of great importance. In a plant's early stage of development, it grows quickly and needs many nutrients. Fertilizer has to be applied at that stage"32	Universal	General	Finance	"Start small and start slow, you need to avoid bankruptcy, don't do everything you want to do in first few years of starting up"33	Universal	General	Finance	"Don't buy the newest most expensive types of machinery in the market, this is a sure way to go into debt"34	Universal	General	Finance	Keep the costs down as much as possible35	Universal	General	Finance	"Keep track of your activity, in a book or on a computer: It will help you to get a loan"36	Universal	General	Finance	"When meeting with banker, convey an image of a diligent, well informed, experienced businessperson"37	Universal	General	Health	Always wear shoes when farming38	Universal	General	Health	"Protect yourself against flies and mosquitos, wear a shirt, hat or protective clothes"39	Universal	General	Health	Be careful when using machinery or any tool. Be sure to wear gloves when operating them41	Universal	General	Health	Protect yourself from the sun42	Universal	Livestock	Management	For livestock always build enclosure43	Universal	Livestock	Management	"If you're planning to breed livestock, check what kind of plants naturally grow around your land and see if it these are appropriate for your animals"44	Universal	Livestock	Management	Make sure you start with good and healthy animals45	Universal	Livestock	Management	"If you're farm is small, stick to small livestock like goats, chickens and other types of domestic fowl"46	Universal	Livestock	Management	"Daily task should include: feeding, watering, cleaning and checking the general health of the stock"47	Universal	Livestock	Management	Keep at least one good male for breeding48	Universal	Livestock	Management	"Be careful with overgrazing: plants should not be exposed to livestock grazing for extended periods of time, or without sufficient recovery periods; Consequences include: reduced pasture for animals, stunted animal growth, desertification, erosion"49	Universal	Livestock	Management	The hooves of goats and sheep need to be trimmed regularly50	Universal	Livestock	Management	"Floors must be kept dry and drain well, bedding should be of dry straw and wood shavings"51	Universal	Livestock	Management	Raised slatted floors of wood or concrete should be constructed so that the gaps are narrow enough to prevent young stock getting their feet trapped52	Universal	Livestock	Management	Housing must be cleaned regularly to avoid build-up of dung with its associated infections and parasites53	Universal	Livestock	Management	Animals which have continuous access to good quality food are less likely to become ill54	Universal	Livestock	Management	"Provided there is adequate land, free grazing allows animals to select and eat the best food available"55	Universal	Livestock	Management	"Managed grazing is basically a livestock rotation that moves animals to graze in different areas. This is essential for many reasons. Moving the animals means they'll have access to different pastures, which means they'll get a variety of nutrients and less exposure to parasites and dust. It also means less erosion because you don't have the animals tromping over the same area of land over and over. Managed grazing also helps with weed control and soil fertility: The manure left behind will serve as a natural fertilizer"56	Universal	Livestock	Management	"If the cattle are kept together, it is easy for the farmer to collect the manure and put it on his fields"57	Universal	Crop	Pests	"When warranted pesticides are a adequate solution to improve the health of your crop, however apply pesticides only on the crops listed on the label, and only for the problems listed there"58	Universal	Crop	Pests	"Do not use more pesticide than the label tells you, both because pesticides are costly and because using too much can poison you, your land, and your crops"59	Universal	Crop	Pests	"Your plants will be better able to withstand pests if you grow different crops in your field, or wait four years before growing the same crop on the same field"60	Universal	Crop	Pests	Crops that are healthy and well fed from the beginning have less chance of being ruined by pests61	Universal	Crop	Pests	Keep wide spaces between plants to help the leaves dry. Plant diseases are less likely to spread this way62	Universal	Crop	Pests	"Mulch your crop to help its growth. Mulching also helps soil keep its moisture, and helps stop some weeds, insects, and diseases from spreading"63	Universal	Crop	Pests	"The best way to prevent pests is to look carefully and regularly at your crops. Check your fields often for insects, weeds, and plant disease"64	Universal	Crop	Pests	"As a last resort, burn diseased crops so the pest won't spread to healthy crops"65	Universal	Crop	Pests	"If the pest is an insect, use a natural enemy--an insect that eats the pest but does not hurt your crop--to remove the pest"66	Universal	Crop	Soil	"Don't forget that the soil dries out faster when the weather warms up, and the wind speeds up soil drying"67	Universal	Crop	Soil	A well-drained soil dries fast and permits timely field operations. In well-drained soil oxygen is able to reach the root zone to promote optimal root health. Optimal root growth happens best in soils without drainage problem68	Universal	Crop	Soil	Driving on wet soil will pack soil down and push out the air and water will not pass through the soil. There will not be enough space for the roots to grow. Soil that is too packed will not give good crop yield. Wait until the ground is dry before you till it or start planting69	Universal	Crop	Soil	"Compost is a mixture of dead plants and roots and leaves. Adding compost to your soil will improve plant yields. If your soil is heavy clay, adding compost will help the soil drain water. If your soil is sandy, adding compost will help the soil hold more water. Adding compost brings earthworms and other living things that help plants and roots grow strong and healthy"70	Universal	Crop	Soil	"Tillage practices, which consist of plowing, turning and airing the soil, help improve the fertility of your soil"71	Universal	Crop	Soil	"Leaving some crop residue on the ground as well as adding organic matter, such as manure or cover crops, can help the soil"72	Universal	Crop	Soil	"Before a crop is sown, the land is prepared. This is done for three main reasons: To loosen the soil so that the roots can grow and so that rain can penetrate more easily, to turn organic matter (and sometimes manure or fertilizer) under into the soil and to control the growth of weeds. Land can be prepared in three ways: by hand (using a spade, hoe, rake, etc.), by animal-drawn implements (a plough, harrow, etc.) and by heavier tractor-drawn implements"73	Universal	Crop	Soil	"After being ploughed, the land is usually harrowed. Harrowing means breaking up the clods of soil left after ploughing. A good seedbed requires small clods of soil"74	Universal	Crop	Soil	"The timing of ploughing is important. If there is a long period between ploughing and sowing, weeds will grow again and the land may have to be ploughed a second time just before sowing. The best time to plough is shortly after a rain, when the soil is moist but not too wet. Ploughing a field when it is too dry can cause small particles of the top soil to blow away"75	Universal	Crop	Soil	"On slopes, the direction of ploughing is important. Rain falling on slopes runs downhill and can wash away part of the top soil. Such water erosion is less likely to happen if ploughing is done across the slope, not down it"76	Universal	Crop	Soil	Piling a ridge of soil up against the base of the plant rows places more soil around the roots and makes it easier for excess water to drain away in the furrows77	Crops	Banana	Harvesting	"Bananas are available fresh year-round, you can grow them at any season"78	Crops	Banana	Harvesting	"Bananas are ready to be picked when they look well rounded with ribs, and the little flowers at the end are dry and rub off easily"79	Crops	Banana	Husbandry	"When selecting bananas, think about your usage time frame. You may wish to choose some already ripe for immediate use and some still slightly but not overly green to ripen for later use. Select bananas that are bright in color, full and plump, avoiding those with bruises. A dull, gray color indicates they have been chilled or overheated during storage"80	Crops	Banana	Pest and Disease	"Cover the fruits with bags while still growing, to help prevent them from ripening to soon and protect them from insects"81	Crops	Banana	Planting	"You need a rich soil to grow bananas: If you don't have good soil to start with, make some. Incorporate compost and manure before you plant your bananas (wood ash for extra potassium doesn't hurt either), and then mulch them very thickly"82	Crops	Banana	Planting	"You may see your first flower emerge after about six months, depending on the weather. Leave the leaves around it, especially the one protecting the top bend of the stalk from sunburn"83	Crops	Cassava	harvesting	"Cassava is harvested by hand by raising the lower part of the stem and pulling the roots out of the ground, then removing them from the base of the plant. The upper parts of the stems with the leaves are plucked off before harvest"84	Crops	Cassava	harvesting	Cassava is usually harvested 9-12 months after planting85	Crops	Cassava	Husbandry	Weeding is necessary every 3-4 weeks until 2-3 months after planting. Afterwards the canopy may cover the soil and weeding is less necessary86	Crops	Cassava	Husbandry	"Cassava requires large amount of nutrients to produce high yields. To maintain high yields, it is necessary to maintain the fertility of the soil"87	Crops	Cassava	planting	"Cassava is propagated through cuttings. The most suitable cuttings are 20-30 cm long and 20-25 mm in diameter (with 5-8 nodes), preferably from the middle browned-skinned portion of the stems of plants 8-14 months old. Cuttings from older, more mature parts of the stem give better yield than cuttings from younger parts, and long cuttings give higher yields than short cuttings. Select cuttings from healthy plants"88	Crops	Cassava	soil management	The best land for planting cassava is flat or gently sloping land. Steep slopes are easily eroded. Valleys and depression areas that usually get waterlogged are not very suitable and cassava roots do not develop well89	Crops	Cocoa	Harvesting	"The harvest can begin when the pods are completely ripe. In many Trinitario types, with their red and dark violet pods, this can be recognised by an orange discolouring of the shell. Yet other varieties take on a yellow colouration when ripe"90	Crops	Cocoa	Harvesting	"During peak production, pods are harvested each week. The best way to avoid harming the bark is to cut off the pods at the base of the blossom with a sharp knife or other suitable instrument"91	Crops	Cocoa	Harvesting	Cocoa can be stored for years in temperate climates without fear92	Crops	Cocoa	Husbandry	"The cocoa trees should also be lightly trimmed, and diseased or poorly developed trees removed (in cases of direct sowing), during these shading regulation tasks"93	Crops	Cocoa	Planting	"The soil on cocoa plantations should be deep, well-drained, and have sufficient water-retaining capacity. Soils with a high available moisture-storage capacity can compensate for periodic lack of rain, while excessive rainfall will cause fewer problems on well-drained soils. Care must be taken that sufficient organic material is available"95	Crops	Coffee	Harvesting	"Each year coffee is harvested during the dry season when the coffee cherries are bright red, glossy, and firm"96	Crops	Coffee	Harvesting	"Coffee storing facilities should be dry, clean and well ventilated"97	Crops	Coffee	Husbandry	"An effective method of growing coffee is to raise seedlings in nurseries that are then planted outside at six to twelve months. Coffee is often intercropped with food crops, such as corn, beans, or rice during the first few years of cultivation as farmers become familiar with its requirements"98	Crops	Coffee	Pest and Disease	"Land cleared of trees within 6 months should not be used for coffee because of the risk of Armillaria , a fungal disease which causes root rot"99	Crops	Coffee	Planting	Coffee prefers well-drained and airy soils. The best conditions are those to be found on virgin soils of volcanic origin100	Crops	Corn (maize)	Harvesting	"Maize can be harvested by hand or by special maize combine harvesters. The stage of maturity can be recognised by yellowing of the leaves, yellow dry papery husks, and hard grains with a glossy surface"101	Crops	Corn (maize)	Husbandry	"Intercropping maize with beans and other legumes regulates pests (leafhopper, leaf beetles, stalk borer, and fall armyworm) and increases the land utility"102	Crops	Corn (maize)	Pest and Disease	"The major problems in most maize-producing areas are reducing the moisture content of the grain, protection from insects and rodents, and proper storage after harvest. High moisture content with high temperatures can cause considerable damage, making the product unsuitable for human consumption"103	Crops	Corn (maize)	Planting	Maize is always planted through direct seeding104	Crops	Corn (maize)	Planting	Maize is planted in the spring to take advantage of spring rains. Its root system is shallow and the plant is dependent on steady rain or irrigation105	Crops	Cotton	Harvesting	Cotton can be hand picked106	Crops	Cotton	Husbandry	Cotton seedlings are sensitive to competition from weeds. Weeds should be controlled early to prevent damage to the crop107	Crops	Cotton	Husbandry	"Intervals between irrigation should be 2-3 weeks on deep permeable sandy loams to heavy clays and less for very light, very heavy and shallow soils. The irrigation period should be 19 weeks. Excessive irrigation besides being a waste of water increases risk of disease incidence"108	Crops	Cotton	Husbandry	"Compost, decomposed animal dung and mulching material are used to supply the soil with sufficient organic material"109	Crops	Cotton	Planting	"In its early stages of growth, cotton requires an arid climate with a plentiful supply of water"110	Crops	Millet	climate	"Millet is mostly grown in temperate and subtropical regions. It is adapted to conditions that are too hot and too dry, and to soils too shallow and poor for successful cultivation of other cereals. It is tolerant of a very wide temperature range but susceptible to frost"111	Crops	Millet	Harvesting	"Harvest takes place 2-4 months after sowing. Avoid delayed harvesting, as the seed shatters easily"112	Crops	Millet	planting	"Selection of healthy seeds, free from bird and insect damage and diseases, is important to produce vigorous seedlings that could fare well in case of attack by pestsor diseases. Prepare seed for sowing by threshing it (if at all stored on the head) and removing all admixtures such as glumes, bits of the rachis and peduncle, etc. This can be done by winnowing and occasionally by sieving. These processes also remove light and small seeds"113	Crops	Millet	planting	"Early land preparation is recommended. Millet requires a fine seedbed suitable for small grains, to ensure good germination, plant population density and effective weed control"114	Crops	Millet	soil management	"Most soils are suitable for its cultivation, except coarse sand"115	Crops	Potato	climate	Potato requires well-distributed rainfall of 500 to 750 mm in a growing period of 3 to 4.5 months116	Crops	Potato	Harvesting	"Immature potatoes may be sold as ""new potatoes"" and are particularly valued for taste. These are often harvested by the home gardener or farmer by ""grabbling"", i.e. pulling out the young tubers by hand while leaving the plant in place"117	Crops	Potato	Husbandry	Avoid planting potatoes in the same field for several consecutive seasons118	Crops	Potato	planting	"Good ground preparation, harrowing, plowing, and rolling are always needed, along with a little grace from the weather and a good source of water"119	Crops	Potato	planting	"In regions with a critical dry season, planting early in the rainy season is best. If the rainy season is long and excessive, time of planting is usually towards the end of the rainy season. Potato subjected to heavy rainfall during growth or harvest is prone to diseases"120	Crops	Potato	soil management	"Potato is tolerant of a rather wide variety of soils, except heavy, waterlogged clays. Good drainage is of great importance. Impermeable layers in the soil limit rooting depth and the amount of available water, and so greatly reduce yields. Deep soils with good water retention and aeration give best growth and yields"121	Crops	Rice	climate	"Optimal temperatures for rice growing are 20 to 37.7°C, and no growth occurs below 10ºC. Rice will grow in altitudes ranging from 0 to 2500 m above sea level, but world wide is mostly grown on the humid coastal lowlands and deltas"122	Crops	Rice	harvesting	"Time from planting to harvesting varies between four to six months. Rice is cut, swathed and threshed from windrow. In the tropics it is essential to harvest the crop on time, otherwise grain losses may result from feeding by rats, birds, insects and from shattering and lodging. The crop should be ready to harvest when 80% of the panicles are straw dust coloured and the grain in the lower portion are in the hard dough stage"123	Crops	Rice	harvesting	In a well-grown crop the grain matures evenly and can be harvested in one operation. Cutting can be done with a sickle. The cut stems are bundled for transport to the threshing place124	Crops	Rice	planting	"Main field water management water is applied to the rice field for the use of the rice plant and also for suppressing weed growth. For this reason, it is important to practice appropriate water management throughout the growing period of a rice crop"125	Crops	Rice	soil management	Rice thrives on land that is water saturated or even submerged during part or all of its growth127	Crops	Soybean	climate	Temperatures below 21°C and above 32°C can reduce floral initiation and pod set. Extreme temperatures above 40°C are detrimental for seed production128	Crops	Soybean	climate	"If water is available, soybeans can be grown throughout the year in the tropics and subtropics. Soybean requires 400 to 500 mm in a season for a good crop. High moisture requirement is critical at the time of germination, flowering and pod forming stage. However dry weather is necessary for ripening. Soybeans can tolerate brief waterlogging but weathering of seed is a serious problem in the rainy season"129	Crops	Soybean	climate	"Cultivation is successful in climates with hot summers, with optimum growing conditions in mean temperatures of 20 to 30 °C (68 to 86 °F); temperatures of below 20 °C and over 40 °C (68 °F, 104 °F) retard growth significantly. They can grow in a wide range of soils, with optimum growth in moist alluvial soils with a good organic content"130	Crops	Soybean	harvesting	Early-maturing cultivars can be harvested for grain 70 days after planting and late maturing cultivars need up to 180 days131	Crops	Soybean	harvesting	Vegetable soybeans are harvested when the pods are still green but when the seeds have filled the pod132	Crops	Soybean	husbandry	Weed control is essential. Early seed bed preparation with removal of couch and watergrass is the first step to good yields133	Crops	Soybean	planting	"Test seed for viability before planting: take 100 seeds from about 3 places in the seed lot, put each lot of 100 seed in a glass of water for 24 hours, then drain off the water and replace with damp cotton wool or a damp cloth"134	Crops	Sugarcane	climate	"Sugarcane cultivation requires a tropical or temperate climate, with a minimum of 60 centimetres (24 in) of annual moisture"135	Crops	Sugarcane	climate	"Ideal site conditions are met with average temperatures of 20 to 28ºC and little fluctuation between night and day. The ideal amount of rainfall is around 1500-1700 mm annually, with a drought occurring during harvesting"136	Crops	Sugarcane	harvest	"Cut the cane as near o the ground as possible as the butt is the sugar-richest portion. To prepare for a ratoon crop, the stems will have to be trimmed down to ground level in order for new shoots to form well from their own roots. The cane is cut and loaded manually, hand cut and grab-loaded or loaded in bundles by chains pulled by a tractor. Because the sucrose is being decomposed quickly inside the sugarcane, it must be processed relatively quickly after harvesting"137	Crops	Sugarcane	planting	"Generally, sugarcane is vegetatively propagated with cuttings of mature stalks, and true seed is only used for breeding of new cultivars. Each cutting or seed sett usually has 2-3 buds. The cuttings are put down horizontally and covered with a thin layer of soil. The leaves and top ends of seed cane can also be removed in the field, the buds are then allowed to germinate on the standing cane stalk. When the new shoots have reached a certain length, the cane is cut into setts and planted. These pre-germinated setts are excellent planting material, but vulnerable during handling and transport and very labour intensive to produce"138	Crops	Sugarcane	planting	"The ideal method is to cultivate sugarcane in a crop rotation system, yet for economical reasons, this is often difficult. Therefore, the good self-tolerance of sugarcane, the planting of legumes, the creation of sufficient compensatory tracts and niches, as well as a comprehensive fertilisation management system all have to help replace a lack of crop rotation on organic cultivations"139	Crops	Sugarcane	soil management	"Sugarcane is cultivated in the tropics and subtropics in areas with plentiful supply of water, for a continuous period of more than six to seven months each year, either from natural rainfall or through irrigation. The crop does not tolerate severe frosts"140	Crops	Teff	climate	Teff could produce good yields at much lower annual rainfalls: for most cultivars 300-500 mm of rainfall per growing season is adequate. Early maturing varieties (60-75 days) can do with less than 300 mm of seasonal rainfall141	Crops	Teff	climate	Teff is day length sensitive and flowers best during 12 hours of daylight142	Crops	Teff	Harvesting	"Teff is stored in any locally available storage facility. Because teff is not attacked by storage insects, no chemical protection is required. Sometimes farmers even mix teff seeds with pulses to protect the latter from weevils"143	Crops	Teff	Husbandry	"Large yield improvements can be achieved by applying techniques that are already known: careful land preparation, use of selected seeds, fertilization, sowing and weeding at the optimum time, and disease and pest control, for example"144	Crops	Teff	Pest and Disease	Teff's rapid growth prevent most weeds and few diseases and pests attack it145	Crops	Teff	soil management	"Teff is adapted to environments ranging from drought stress to water logged soil conditions. Maximum teff production occurs at altitudes of 1800 to 2100 m, with a temperature range of 10 to 27 °C"146	Crops	Tobacco	Harvesting	The entire plant is harvested at once by cutting off the stalk at the ground with a tobacco knife147	Crops	Tobacco	Harvesting	Harvest your tobacco plants about three months after planting. Cut the plants at the stalk and keep all the leaves attached148	Crops	Tobacco	husbandry	"After the plants have reached a certain height, they are transplanted into fields. This was originally done by making a relatively large hole in the tilled earth with a tobacco peg, then placing the small plant in the hole"149	Crops	Tobacco	Planting	"Tobacco seeds are scattered onto the surface of the soil, as their germination is activated by light"150	Crops	Tobacco	Planting	"After the plants have reached a certain height you need to transplant them into fields. This is done by making a relatively large hole in the tilled earth with a tobacco peg, then placing the small plant in the hole"151	Crops	Tobacco	Planting	Maintain moisture in the planters and keep the tobacco seeds exposed to the sun152	Crops	Tomato	climate	"Ideally, tomato requires a relatively cool, dry climate for high yield and premium quality. The optimum temperature range for growth and development is 21 to 24°C"153	Crops	Tomato	harvesting	"Fresh-market tomatoes are often harvested at the mature-green stage and ripened in transit or in storage before they are marketed. After picking, tomatoes should be stored in a shady place either in the field or at home to prepare them for the market"154	Crops	Tomato	husbandry	"Tomato needs adequate irrigation during the early plant growth, fruit set and fruit enlargement stages. About 20 mm of water per week is needed under cool conditions; about 70 mm during hot and dry periods. Constancy of water supply plays a major role in attaining uniform maturity and reducing the incidence of blossom-end rot, a physiological disorder associated with irregular water suply and the resulting calcium deficiency in the fruit during its enlargement"155	Crops	Tomato	planting	Tomato can be direct-seeded or transplanted in the field. Relatively little seed-drilling or direct sowing into the field is practised in the humid tropics because of adverse growing conditions156	Crops	Tomato	soil management	Tomatoes can be grown in many soil types ranging from sandy loam to clay-loam soils that are rich in organic matter157	Crops	Wheat	climate	Wheat likes to be grown in fairly dry and mild climates. Weather conditions influence when wheat is planted158	Crops	Wheat	climate	"Wheat is essentially a temperate-climate crop. Optimum temperatures for development are 10 to 24°C. RelativeIy low temperatures result in the highest yields. Temperatures above 35°C stop photosynthesis and growth, and at 40°C the crop is killed by the heat"159	Crops	Wheat	harvesting	Wheat matures in 4-7 months depending on variety and altitude. Small scale farmers usually cut the wheat using hand sickles. This should be done when the kernels have become hard. The wheat is then tied into bundles and stacked to be threshed when completely dry160	Crops	Wheat	husbandry	"Weeds can be controlled by hand weeding and proper crop rotation. Wheat is best rotated with non-graminaceous crops, particularly with pulses, potatoes or any other crop which is possible to keep free of weeds"161	Crops	Wheat	planting	Choose a suitable variety for the area and plant with the first rains162	Crops	Wheat	planting	"Sowing depth varies from 2-12 cm, with deeper planting required in dry conditions to reach the soil moisture. However, care must be taken not to sow too deep as the seed will then die"163	Livestock	Chicken	Health	"Wild birds can carry diseases and germs and there is a small risk that they could infect domestic poultry or even pet birds. Such risks include avian influenza, Newcastle disease and salmonella. A few basic precautions will minimise that risk"164	Livestock	Chicken	Health	"Make sure that wild birds cannot access your bird or poultry feed, otherwise they might contaminate that feed. If your birds are free range, it’s mostly a case of ensuring the feeder is not out in the open but is protected"165	Livestock	Chicken	Coops	"Coops must be big enough for the chickens to live comfortably by allowing them room to flap their wings, walk about, and build comfortable nests"166	Livestock	Chicken	Coops	"Chicken coops must also be hygienic—featuring changeable flooring (like sawdust, woodchips or sand), room for humans to clean, and ventilation"167	Livestock	Chicken	Coops	"If building a new coop, make sure you consider the following: site selection, drainage, noise, odour, ease of access and number of chickens you will be keeping"168	Livestock	Chicken	Feeders and drinkers	Water must be kept clean and free from manure169	Livestock	Chicken	Feeders and drinkers	"Meat chickens and layers will require a different type of feed. This type will also vary according to the age of the birds. Chicks will usually be fed on crumbles, which are high in protein and energy"170	Livestock	Chicken	Feeders and drinkers	"By the time a pullet is ready to lay, it will be consuming from 80 to 100g of feed per day"171	Livestock	Chicken	Feeders and drinkers	"A grown hen will drink from 250 to 300ml of water a day, consuming up to half a litre per day in very hot conditions"172	Livestock	Chicken	Husbandry	It is vital that you learn how to catch and hold birds securely and safely173	Livestock	Chicken	Husbandry	Check regularly for parasites such as lice or mites and isolate and treat sick birds. External parasites such as these can be easily seen174	Livestock	Chicken	Husbandry	Monitor your birds visual appearance so as to pick up the first signs of feather pecking or any aggressive behaviour175	Livestock	Chicken	Hygiene	Manure should be removed regularly. Clean litter or bedding should be added176	Livestock	Chicken	Hygiene	"If your coop design allows for it, keeping a rake or shovel hanging near the coop will be very handy"177	Livestock	Chicken	Hygiene	Old litter and manure is great for composting and adding to gardens178	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	Eggs should be collected daily179	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	Leaving eggs in a nest box can encourage chickens to go broody180	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	"Hens may also peck or eat eggs that are left, and once they have acquired this habit it is very hard to change"181	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	Check egg shells for any defects before using home laid eggs182	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	"Eggs with defective shells should not be consumed without first cooking, as bacteria may have penetrated the shell wall"183	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	Eggs can be stored for up to 6 weeks if refrigerated184	Livestock	Chicken	Eggs	"By marking the date collected gently on the outside of the shell when you collect your eggs, you can make sure that old eggs don’t get left behind unused"185	Livestock	Goat	General	"Decide if you want to do Meat goats, Milk goats, Fiber goats or maybe a variety of each"186	Livestock	Goat	Raising	"Shop around for food and water buckets, compare grains if you will be feeding your goats. Pick out a good balanced mineral to be fed free choice to provide what your goats may be lacking"187	Livestock	Goat	Health	"Goats will get hurt minor or major and will need medical attention, so make your own Goat first aid kit, your vet can help you with recommendations for what to stock it with"188	Livestock	Goat	Housing	Get help from someone who has built a pasture before. Goats will climb and rub on even the toughest fences if not prevented. They may also try to squeeze through even the tiniest spaces even if you don't think they can189	Livestock	Goat	Housing	"Make sure to build a separate, strong buck pen in which the fences must be very strong, sturdy and very high"190	Livestock	Goat	Breeding	"When they go into heat, put them in with the buck for a couple days, or until you think they have been taken"191	Livestock	Goat	Breeding	"A normal gestation period is 145 to 155 days, 150 being average"192	Livestock	Goat	Breeding	"The longer they have been with the buck, the larger range the expected due date will be,"193	Livestock	Goat	Housing	Frequently check your fences for holes. Goats can get out of very small holes - especially kids194	Livestock	Goat	General	Sanitize all of your milking equipment and keep your milking area very clean. This is important for the taste of your milk195	Livestock	Goat	Housing	Goats do not require elaborate housing. They are generally hardy animals that tolerate hot and cold weather well as long as they are provided with simple shelter196	Livestock	Goat	Housing	"Animals housed in groups on dry lots have the freedom to move about and get plenty of exercise, building and maintenance costs are low, and manure handling is simplified"197	Livestock	Goat	Housing	"Goats, like sheep, have an aversion to walking in wet, or muddy areas. Water draining from corral surfaces must be diverted to a holding tank or sump, and contained on the owner's property"198	Livestock	Goat	Feeding	"Feeding and watering equipment should be constructed and located so it is easily accessible by the animals, provides a safe environment, and the contamination of feed with excreta is minimal"199	Livestock	Sheep	Housing	"Stray cattle may spread disease, as can feral animals such as goats, dogs and deer. A feral animal control plan is an important part of property biosecurity. If you find stray sheep in your propoerty,  immediately isolate them"200	Livestock	Sheep	Health	The biggest risk of introducing diseases and pests to your property is through purchasing sheep. Even sheep which appear to be in good health can introduce diseases201	Livestock	Sheep	General	Move sheep often202	Livestock	Sheep	General	Don’t overgraze203	Livestock	Sheep	General	Utilize the manure from the barn to bring nutrients back on the pastures204	Livestock	Sheep	Raising Sheep	Start with a flock of sheep suited to the environment205	Livestock	Sheep	General	Selecting sheep that are capable of finding shelter during poor weather. This is a learned survival trait that is taught to lambs206	Livestock	Sheep	General	"Typically, five to seven ewes (female sheep) and their offspring can comfortably occupy the same amount of land as just one cow and calf, and sheep can graze lawns, ditches, woodlots and mature orchards"207	Livestock	Sheep	Housing	They’re not as easily fenced as cattle (but they’re a lot easier than goats)208	Livestock	Cattle	General	"Every day, cut fresh grass and feed for the cattle"209	Livestock	Cattle	General	Make sure the feed troughs are never empty210	Livestock	Cattle	General	Provide as much water as the animals want to drink211	Livestock	Cattle	General	Hang solid mineral blocks (you can get these from feed stores) for the animals to lick212	Livestock	Cattle	Milking	"If milk is not handled well, it can easily be contaminated and bacteria and other harmful organisms to grow in it. The advantages of keeping milk very clean are:The advantages of keeping milk very clean are: It is safe for human consumption, it can stay longer without spoiling and it has high commercial value"213	Livestock	Cattle	Breeding	"Benefits from breeding: Increase milk production, replace older animals with young ones, produce qulity animals for sale, produce animals that are suitable for your environment and can resist diseases and produce animals with desirable traits like; milk with high butter content, good meat distribution or a preferable colour"214	Livestock	Cattle	Feeding	"Don't use roadside grasses as feed, as they can spread pests such as ticks, and diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease"215	Livestock	Cattle	Housing	Protect the stall from predators such as hyenas and jackals216	Livestock	Cattle	Housing	"If the area is very hot, you can roof the walking area as well as the shed. Otherwise, you can leave the walking area open"217	Livestock	Cattle	Housing	"If necessary, put straw in the pens as bedding for the animals"218	Livestock	Cattle	Housing	Make sure the animals have enough space to be comfortable. Keep the stall clean219	Livestock	Cattle	Health	"Watch carefully for pests and diseases, and treat them early"220	Livestock	Cattle	General	Keep the bull separate from the cows. Watch the cows carefully for signs of heat so you know when to breed them221	Livestock	Cattle	Housing	Ensure that the environment is kept clean by regularly sweeping and using disinfectants in animal houses222	Livestock	Cattle	Health	"When an animal becomes sick, isolate it to prevent the spread of disease and contact a veterinary doctor immediately"223	Livestock	Cattle	Health	Give vaccination to newly-born animals and monitor them closely when they are young224	Livestock	Cattle	Health	De-worm animals regularly225	Livestock	Cattle	Health	Wash feed and water containers regularly226	Livestock	Cattle	Health	Have a local veterinary doctor conduct regular medical checkups227	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	Feeding troughs should be made from metal and preferably fixed228	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	Provide adequate floor space to avoid overcrowding. For instance a pig that weighs 85kg requires at least 1m of space for eating and sleeping229	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	The floor should have a rough finish to prevent pigs from slipping on wet surfaces230	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	"There should be about three or four pens provided to cater for different categories (such as pregnant pigs, piglets, and farrowing sows)"231	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	Pigs require warm dry housing free from dust as they easily get pneumonia. The floor should be well drained and concreted and not too close to dwelling houses232	Livestock	Pigs	Raising	"If poorly fed, pigs remain undersized and will delay to mature"233	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	"Count the number of breasts, the more the breasts the more the piglets borne, Select good gilts with 12 tits"234	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Select a boar of sound fit235	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Avoid diseased boars236	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Take note of the mother pig of the boar (male pig)237	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Ensure it is a big sized type238	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Check the testacles as small ones are a sign of poor quality off springs239	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Ensure the female is fully on heat240	Livestock	Pigs	General	"De-worm boars - every 6 months, sows -2 weeks before furrowing to avoid giving birth to piglets with worms. De -worm again after weaning. piglets 1 week after weaning then fattening stock at 4 moths"241	Livestock	Pigs	General	"Control external parasites by spraying lice, ticks and fleas because these may spread diseases. This can be done by smearing animals with tephrosia powder mixed with water at a ratio of 1/2 kg to 2 litres of water at 2 weeks interval"242	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	Repair the floor where ever necessary to avoid very rough surface which may lead to foot rot and wounds243	Livestock	Pigs	Housing	Ensure good hygiene in the house244	Livestock	Pigs	Raising	Wean piglets at 2 months. This should be done gradually so as piglets can get used to the food245	Livestock	Pigs	Breeding	Transfer expecting pigs to a furrow pen at 7 days before giving birth246	Livestock	Pigs	Health	Give iron injection to piglets at 1st week to prevent anemia infection247	Livestock	Pigs	Health	"Provide scratching poles as pig’s body irritates or use a brush to groom it, this removes some parasites"248	Livestock	Pigs	General	Keep record of the pigs for treatment and other services249	Livestock	Pigs	General	Don’t allow visitors at the site to avoid contamination